Throughout history, rulers and followers of rulers wrote about themselves and their state for many reasons, sometimes to have demonstrated their power or in response to something that happened in their empire. Through these documents that’ve been found, some aspects of these rulers including the impact they had on their people, their legacies, their qualities, and if they were a great ruler, just generally a good ruler, or even a bad ruler as well as why are able to be determined. Looking at the documents Li Si and the Legalist Policies of Qin Shihuang, The Code of Hammurabi, and In Praise of Athenian Democracy these aspects about the rulers who were presented or discussed in each one can be determined. 
	King Hammurabi was a very important and great ruler, having ruled the Babylonian empire and wrote The Code of Hammurabi which was a very important record of a comprehensive set off laws as seen in the document The Code of Hammurabi and was a very influential piece of history as it was very beneficial for us to help understand what life was like back then in ancient Babylon and also what it was like to be a past citizens of Babylon while he was king. What made King Hammurabi a great ruler was not only that he had created and recorded laws with punishments that kept his kingdom in line with all 282 rules and proper punishment for a lot of them but, there is more to his life as a king that allows him to be considered great. As read in World History: Cultures, States, and Societies to 1500, “Hammurabi also improved the infrastructure, promoted trade, employed effective administrative practices, and supported productive agriculture” (Berger, World History, p. 46). The text also goes on to point out that Hammurabi supported the creation in Babylon of roads and a postal service. As seen, some qualities that King Hammurabi had were that of supporting his kingdom which allowed it to expand to lengths that wouldn’t last long after his death. His great rulership allowed Babylon to grow and flourish under him so much that it wasn’t able to stay that way when he was no longer king. His rule impacted the people of Babylon greatly with legacies of, like previously mentioned, the Code of Hammurabi that allowed the people of Babylon to become disciplined enough to expand, grow, and have created advancements to their society like streets, postal services and generally supporting movements that allowed them to grow. With the rules mentioned in the document  The Code of Hammurabi such as “143: If she is not innocent, but leaves her husband, and ruins her house, neglecting her husband, this woman shall be cast into the water” (The Code of Hammurabi document). For these reasons, it’s clear that King Hammurabi qualified as a great ruler since he advanced Babylon expanding it beyond its previous size with new laws and strict but effective regulations all the while supporting what needed support to allow Babylon to become a better society back then and allowing historians now to be able to understand what ancient Babylon was like including it’s laws, structure, longevity, and what it was like ruling it.
	Pericles was the last ruler of a city in ancient Athens before they went through the Peloponnesian war and lost to Sparta. He was thought of as a populist and an imperialist to some as there were people who criticized him and tried to convince others he was someone who manipulates others to gain more power. Looking at his speech from the document In Praise of Athenian Democracy though, especially when he says “Our city is thrown open to the world, and we never expel a foreigner… We rely not upon management or trickery, but upon our own hearts and hands.” (In Praise of Athenian Democracy document) it seemed that he was very thoughtful of his community and open to outsiders as well. A lot can be said about Pericles and his advancements to Athenian society, culture, and legacy. Alongside his achievements, he praised democracy and his military before dying at the beginning of the Peloponnesian wars, therefore no longer being a ruler of ancient Greece as it fell from its ultimate loss to Sparta. Although Pericles seemed to be a very open minded and confident ruler, especially confident in his rulings ability presenting Athens to be the best out of all Greece, he was not a very good ruler as it pertains to him preventing the downfall of Athens from their loss to Sparta in the Peloponnesian war. He was very good to his people and Athens in general but he seemed to be too open when it came to outsiders or “foreigners” and their access to Athens and its knowledge. He even said that “our city is thrown open to the world, and we never expel a foreigner or prevent him from seeing… anything of which the secret if revealed to an enemy might profit him”(In Praise of Athenian Democracy document), admitting that he allowed Athens under his rule to be vulnerable enough to be penetrated by a foreigner and be able to get information that would allow for weakness in the case of war or conflicts with other city states or civilizations. So in the context of defense and longevity of Athens, Pericles was not a good ruler. Although, when looked at from other perspectives such as one rating him on his civilization's comfort or advancement in Athens, Pericles could be considered a great leader in that sense with a legacy relating to arts and literature which made a good impact on Greek culture.
	Li Si was the Grand Councilor of Qin Shihuang during the Qin dynasty and wrote about the first emperor Qin Shiguang and his policy that was guided by the doctrine of legalism in the document Li Si and the Legalist Policies of Qin Shihuang. Qin Shihuang was talked about and a lot was mentioned about him by Li Si in the document and also during those times he was slandered upon by some scholars which was causing issues as it was largely influencing other citizens and making the government worried. It’s debated whether or not Qin was a good emperor now and in the past as in his document it can be seen how he praises him making it known how Qin “when the world, torn by chaos and disorder… has conquered the whole world” (Li Si document) as a past effort to tell the people of the Qin dynasty that he’s a great leader and should not be slandered upon. On the other hand, these “opinionated scholars… quote the old songs and records” (Li Si document) and use old learnings to oppose the rule of Qin which must mean that they saw something wrong with him considering that they were around for a while with access to older historical texts as well.  So it’s unclear whether Qin Shihuang was a great ruler or not to his people from this document but, according to World History: Cultures, States, and Societies to 1500, “the First Emperor [Qin] had brought the Warring States Period to a close… to unify the known world under one powerful monarch and, by so doing, to initiate an age of peace and prosperity”(Berger, World History, p. 142) which shows that in terms of bringing China out of an era of war and establishing a government causing an impact of peace to their known world, Qin was a great ruler. Bringing China together after that warring period is also one of his greatest legacies alongside him establishing legalism and having one of the most immaculate and extraordinary tombs, still not completely uncovered to this day, which is seen as historical treasure to visitors from around the world thousands of years after its creation.
	Overall, what qualified a ruler as great if they were great came down to their contribution towards their society whether it was good or bad as well as their treatment of people in establishing laws and a foundation for peace and longevity for them and the future historians that look back at them and their recorded history now. Qualities tended to be the ones relating to improving their past kingdom such as Hammurabi and how he supported so many things such as Babylons agriculture or road system. Leaders with legacies that are still talked about today and that have benefited their society by impacting their peace, order and longevity and future societies for showing them what to do and what not to do can also easily fit this criteria to be considered a great leader in history. 
